# *FFI* and `.so` library

Everything starts from the will of running a super awesome *C* library from within *Torch*.
So, let's start step by step, with the writing of the *C* source code.

## *C* source code

So, for this super mega project we would like to fill an `int` *array* of length `size` with the index of each of its elements starting from `1`.

```c
void dummy(int* ptrFromLua, int size) {

  for (int i = 0; i < size; i++)
    ptrFromLua[i] = i + 1;

  return;

}
```

What this code does is simply *defining* a *routine* (or `void` *function*) called `dummy`, which expects a *pointer* to a `int` *array* of `size` elements. Once it is called, it iterates over all the *array* by filling its elements with their *C* index `+ 1`. Then it `return` a `void`.
The source code is available at [`src/asdf.c`](src/asdf.c).

## *make* and `.so` compilation

Now we need to build our *shared library* from the *C* source file. As for convention, the library name will be `lib` + *name* + `.so`, so in this case we'll end up with a file called `libasdf.so`.

For compiling the source code shown above into a *shared library* we need to use *gcc* with several arguments.
In order to simplify this procedure, a [`src/Makefile`](src/Makefile) can be created instead, where all this information can be directly executed by typing the command `make` from within the [`src`](src) directory.

### Compilation details

For the more curious of the readers, I'm going to briefly explain how the [`src/Makefile`](src/Makefile) has been written.

```makefile
LIBOPTS = -shared
CFLAGS = -fPIC -std=gnu99
CC = gcc

libasdf.so : asdf.c
	$(CC) $< $(LIBOPTS) $(CFLAGS) -o $@

clean :
	rm *.so
```

`CC` specifies the *compiler* that is going to be used; `-shared` means we are going to create a *shared library* from a `-fPIC` *Position Independent Code* (there is no `main()` function) which has a variable definition within a `for` definition, and therefore, requires `-std=gnu99`.  
Hence, typing `make` will build an `-o` output `libasdf.so` from the source code `asdf.c`.  
If we would like to remove every file generated by *make*, we can simply issue `make clean` and it will do the trick.

## Scripting in *Lua*

And now we are almost at the end! From *Lua* we need to *expose* the *pointer* of a `IntTensor` of dimension `length` and send both *pointer* and *size* to the *C* function that is ready to be used in our *shared library* `libasdf.so`.

```lua
-- FFI stuff -------------------------------------------------------------------
-- Require ffi
ffi = require("ffi")
-- Load myLib
myLib = ffi.load(paths.cwd() .. '/libasdf.so')
-- Function prototypes definition
ffi.cdef [[
   void dummy(int* ptr_form_lua, int size)
]]

-- Main program ----------------------------------------------------------------
length = 5
a = torch.IntTensor(length):random()
myLib.dummy(torch.data(a), length)
```

Some comments about the "*FFI* stuff". We need first to `require` the `ffi` *Lua* package, then we can `ffi.load` the shared library we have built with *make* and lastly we need to tell *LuaJIT* what is the *prototype* of our *routine*.  
In the "Main program", we have simply to create a random `IntTensor`, expose its *C* pointer with `torch.data()` and send it, along with its `length` to the *C* `dummy()` routine which is now available as a *Lua* function in the `myLib` table.

## Motivations

Why is this stuff cool? Run the source code [`src/run.lua`](scr/run.lua) and you'll understand it. Bare in mind that **you have to actually read the instructions** at the begining of the code and experiment with different combination of options by commenting some lines of code.

For the more lazy ones, I'll write here some conclusions myself.  
By setting `length` to `1e7`, i.e. 10 millions, and disabling the `print()` of the array on screen, I get the following output:

```
C function computation time 31.98 ms
Lua loop computation time 2890.92 ms
```

Which means, *C* completed the task in `1/30` of a second, whereas *Lua* takes almost `3` seconds for finishing its `for` loop. We can make *Lua* perform better, and we'll do it in the next tutorial session.

Another reason about *why* you are loving this tutorial is that now you can use whatever compiled library — like some cool stuff from [*OpenCV*](http://opencv.org/), [*FFmpeg*](https://www.ffmpeg.org/) or even from your own *shared library* you just compiled with a `Makefile` — and interface it with *Torch*. This means your horizons have never been so wide! Go, and start interfacing a new library!
